
Which source bodies of text did you choose? Which new texts/bodies of text did you choose to compare against the sources?
What were the results of your comparisons?
How well do you think your text classification program works? How could it be improved?

During the run_tests() function of the final project, I chose two sources to classify the four writing pieces. The two sources were the works of J.K.Rowling and the works of Shakespeare, which was one of the options recommended from the final project. For the works of Shakespeare, I downloaded the text files from the final project website, but took the first forty sonnets out to compare it with later. For the works of J.K.Rowling, I found the first three Harry Potter books from online and moved into one text file. For both of the source files, I removed the additional information at the top and bottom of the texts since those wordings might cause errors while classifying the four text files I chose. The four texts/bodies of text I chose are my The Namesake essay that I wrote recently as my final English paper, the first forty sonnets from Shakespeare that I removed from the original source file, fourth book of HarryPotter from J.K. Rowling, and a novel To Kill a Mockingbird from Harper Lee.

After running the run_tests() function, my Namesake essay, fourth book of Harry Potter, and To Kill a Mockingbird classified with J.K. Rowling’s source file (first three books of Harry Potter) while the first forty sonnets of Shakespeare classified with Shakespeare’s source file (everything except the forty sonnets that were used to test). My algorithm was able to classify J.K.Rowling’s work (fourth book of Harry Potter) as J.K. Rowling’s work and Shakespeare work (forty sonnets) as Shakespeare’s work. Both of the other files that I inserted were classified as more like J.K.Rowling probably because Shakespeare’s style of writing is very different than the two pieces I chose. Unlike the style that focuses on writing plays and poems with his unique style of writing, J.K. Rowling’s style of writing were easily relatable with the two other files I chose. 

I believe my version of text clarification does a good job of classifying texts because it did classify the authors of the forty sonnets and forth book of Harry Potter correctly. In addition, it matched with my predictions regarding the two other sources I chose to classify. However, I think I can improve my text classification program by making the stem method better. Even though my stem method fulfills the minimum requirement for this final project and does get the stem words of some words, it is not perfect. In other words, there are more rooms for me to improve on writing this function because there are more cases for me to consider, which includes all the prefix and suffix. In addition, my program can be improved by having the same number of words per source files. Since the variables that determine whether one writing belongs to one source file or another are number of vowels, number of words, number of sentences, and etc., which depends on the number of words or sentences in each source file, which might allow one file to belong to one source just because the source has more words, not because it looks more alike. Therefore, by keeping the source file to have the same length in terms of words or sentences, we can make this program better in terms of accuracy.