
The Namesake Essay
            What is your opinion on the ongoing nature vs. nurture debate? Which quality do you believe has a bigger impact on one’s identity: experiences or genetic inheritance? Jhumpa Lahiri’s The Namesake explains the life of the Gangulis, a Calcutta family who migrated to America. The author especially focuses on the life of Gogol, the son of Ashima and Ashoke born in America. Even though Ashima and Ashoke strongly believe that their children should have Bengali thoughts since their ethnic roots belong to Bengali, and therefore try to raise Gogol as one of themselves by forcing him to follow Bengali culture and traditions, Gogol goes against their expectations and shows disrespect towards Bengali culture by making relationships with few non-Bengali girlfriends, respecting other culture while feeling embarrassed about Bengali culture, changing his name without notifying his parents, and disagreeing about his job with his parents. The issue of identity also appears in Julian Hill’s personal narrative, “In Search of Black Identity in Uganda.” Julian Hill, an African American born in the United States, describes his experiences at Africa, where he believes is his ‘second home,’ based on the same African ethnic root and skin color. Although he finds Uganda welcoming and expects to relate with other Ugandans easily, he gradually realizes the unrelatable factors, such as cultural barriers, that cause him to feel disconnected from them to the point where he thinks of himself as a person with split-identity. These experiences of Gogol and Hill allow the readers to ask to what extent can one’s identity be defined by one’s ethnic roots? Although I agree with Gogol’s parents that ethnic roots are meaningful up to a point, I cannot accept their overriding assumption that ethnic roots determine the identity of individuals. The effects of one’s ethnic roots are restricted to only the DNA and physical appearances. Rather, other factors, such as languages, experiences, and surrounding environments play a significant role in shaping one’s identity.
            One’s ethnic root does not hugely contribute to determining one’s identity. Gogol’s decision to abandon the name, Gogol, given by his parents and to choose a new name, Nikhil, proves that ethnic roots are insignificant when it comes to shaping identities. Gogol learns about Nikoali Gogol, the origin of his name, from Mr. Lawson during his eleventh grade. However, instead of recognizing Nikoali Gogol as one of the most brilliant Russian writers, Gogol only keeps the negative reputations of him, including his depression, difficulty in making friends, and inability to marry with others (Lahiri 91). These negative aspects about Nikoali Gogol upset Gogol and provide him the motivation to change his name into Nikhil. During a meal with his parents, he shares his opinion about changing his name and shows disrespect to Bengali roots: “‘I’m not,’ he persisted. ‘I don’t get it. Why did you have to give me a pet name in the first place? What’s the point?... ‘I don’t get it. How could you guys name me after someone so strange? No one takes me seriously,’ Gogol said” (Lahiri 99-100). Here, he not only complains about naming him as Gogol but also criticizes the Bengali culture for having two different names: pet name and good name. According to the Bengali culture, people should be given two names, one used within the family members and one used at the outside world. This culture of keeping two names is very important since both of his parents keep their pet name even after their immigration to America. Gogol’s explanation that he does not understand why he is given two names and his decision to reject his pet name show his disrespect towards the Bengali culture. In addition, throughout his complaint, he mentions that the name Gogol is not the name he connects with, but is what his parents connect with, and therefore implies that he has the right to change his name. In other words, he strongly possesses his own identity rather than being submissive towards his parents’ Bengali identity. By failing to understand the Bengali culture of having two names and his decision to delete his pet name, Gogol shows that his ethnic root has no effect on shaping his identity. 
            The languages that people speak play an essential role in shaping identities. Lera Boroditsky, a professor, explains the correlation between language and the way people think through numerous researches and experiments. She describes that “Language is central to our experience of being human, and the languages we speak profoundly shape the way we think, the way we see the world, the way we live our lives” (Boroditsky 143:26). According to Boroditsky, the different languages that people speak allow them to think, see, and live differently. Therefore, the difference between the language that Gogol and his parents speak can be explained as one of the reasons why Gogol does not respect and understand his culture. Growing up from Calcutta and migrating to America, Ashoke and Ashima identify Bengali language as their first language and English as their second language while Gogol identifies English as his most comfortable language. Unlike his parents who are familiar with Bengali language, Gogol’s lack of understanding of the Bengali language, due to learning English mainly and living in America throughout most of his life, causes him to become distant from understanding his culture. During a panel discussion at Yale, the narrator of the novel describes that “although he can understand his mother tongue, and speak it fluently, he cannot read or write it with even modest proficiency…He has no ABCD friends at college. He avoids them … ‘I just don’t have the time,’” (Lahiri 118-119). Here, the narrator explains Gogol’s inability to literate Bengali language. His illiteracy prevents him from connecting with other Indian friends at his school and attending to Indian organizations that celebrate important dates for them. In other words, because he does not fully comprehend Bengali language, he fails to think as Bengali and make Bengali friends who share the same ethnic root. 
            Experiences and environments are more significant than ethnic roots when it comes to shaping identities. Julian Hill failing to connect with the Ugandans by basing his ethnic root proves that it does not play a role in identifying one’s identity. Although Hill strongly believes that he belongs to the Ugandan community, the Ugandans exclude him by referring him as "Muzungu" (Hill 57:27), foreigner in Lugandan, the language used by Ugandans. The fact that the Ugandans believe Hill as an outsider, despite having the same skin color and ethnic root, explains that they identify him as American, not one of themselves. Furthermore, Hill realizes that he cannot easily connect with the Ugandans after understanding his privileges as American: "how could I forge any sort of solidarity with the neglected and exploited Ugandans in my village when my economic privileges presupposed the difficulties of so many of them" (Hill 58:42). Here, he recognizes the huge economic gap between the Ugandans and himself. Unlike the Africans who cannot afford the expensive foods due to the lack of money, he can easily purchase them, since he has the capability of bringing enough money from America. From these experiences, Hill understands that he cannot relate with the Africans purely based on his skin color and ethnic root because he comes from a very different environment with different experiences from those of the Ugandans. Similarly, the experiences of Gogol in America greatly contribute to shaping his identity. He falls in love with the high-class American culture and looks down onto his Bengali culture. Maxine, a girl that he meets at a party, invites him to her house to introduce her parents and provide a meal. Throughout his trip to her house, he not only falls in love with the house itself but also the culture of the elite Americans: “It is a different brand of hospitality from what he is used to; for though the Ratliffs are generous… that their life will appeal to him,” (Lahiri 136). Here, he compares the hospitality of Maxine’s culture and Bengali culture. Unlike the Bengali culture, which focuses on questioning one’s academics and economic status, Maxine’s culture truly welcomes the guests by providing luxurious steaks and wines, with light conversation topics. After experiencing both the Bengali culture of his parents and the elite American culture of Maxine, Gogol prioritizes the high-class American culture over his culture, which shows that it is not ethnic roots of individuals that determine one’s identity, but is the experiences and environments that control one’s identity. 
            At this point, I would like to raise some objections that have been inspired by the skeptic in me. Some readers might challenge my view by insisting that Gogol ends up marrying with Moushumi, a Bengali woman born in America, by following the traditional Bengali ceremony for their marriage. Marrying a Bengali woman is very meaningful to Gogol’s identity. Even though Gogol previously has few relationships with American women, he eventually comes back to loving a woman who shares the same ethnic root as him. Furthermore, Gogol following the Bengali way of celebrating his marriage demonstrates that he does not completely reject his Bengali identity, which might allow the readers to raise an objection that Gogol’s ethnic root greatly affects his identity. However, the divorce between them show the side-effects of enforcing identities based on ethnic roots, because it is the Bengali root of Gogol and Moushumi that causes their divorce. Moushumi explains her stress from marrying Gogol, a Bengali: “she can’t help but associate him, at times, with a sense of resignation, with the very life she has resisted, has struggled so mightily to leave behind. He was not who she saw herself ending up with …doing precisely what had been expected of her” (Lahiri 250). Moushumi, just like Gogol, lived her life rejecting the Bengali culture and the Bengali expectations by disagreeing about her job with her parents and dating Americans instead of Bengali. Even though she marries Gogol, who she truly loves, she cannot resist thinking that she eventually accepted the Bengali culture and followed the expectations of her parents, which she does not favor. In order to escape from her frustration that she is living as an ideal Bengali woman, she chooses to date an American, leading to their divorce. In other words, Gogol and Moushumi divorce due to their parents trying to enforce Bengali expectations and Bengali culture, which both Moushumi and Gogol desire to reject. Moreover, Gogol and Moushumi explain that their decision to follow the Bengali way of celebrating their marriage is because they did not want to argue with their parents regarding their marriage, despite their preference of “a sit-down dinner, jazz played during the reception, black-and-white photographs, keeping things small” (Lahiri 219). Therefore, even though some people might view Gogol and Moushumi’s marriage as Gogol’s transformation back to his Bengali roots, the divorce shows not only Gogol’s failure to connect with his ethnic roots upon determining his identity but also the negative consequences of trying to determine people’s identity only based on their identity.  
            Both Gogol’s disrespect towards Bengali culture and Hill’s failure to connect with the Ugandans relying on his ethnicity allow the readers to question to what extent can the ethnic roots of people affect their identity. Though I concede that ethnic roots are meaningful, I still insist that the effects of ethnic roots are limited to physical appearances and DNA, because languages, experiences, and surrounding environments play a significant role in shaping identities. Gogol and Hill’s migration to America forces them to use English and get exposed to the American culture, allowing them to naturally transform themselves into Americans. Because Gogol’s disrespect towards his culture is derived from the fact that he was born and raised at America, do you think that Gogol would grow up respecting his Bengali culture if he was born and raised at Bengali? In other words, how would Gogol be affected if he was raised at the country where his ethnic root belongs to? These questions are fascinating to consider since there exist varieties of perspectives to these questions. Some people might believe that the Bengali language, experiences, and environment at Calcutta will allow him to respect and keep his Bengali culture while others might doubt his loyalty even if he was raised at Calcutta, based on his rejection towards his culture at America. 


